Vehicles
One day at the local park, there was a tragic accident involving a pedestrian and a car. Aiming to
avoid accidents that could endanger parkgoers or jeopardize their physical integrity, the park
administrators established a rule that: “No cars are allowed inside the park”.
[Violation; Block 3] John is late to work and notices that the only way he can get there in time for
an important meeting is by taking a shortcut through the park. He takes the shortcut, making it
just in time for his meeting.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 1, 5, and 7] The city's championship-winning team parades in a big limo
inside the park to celebrate the title. The limo proceeds very slowly and police scouts on the
ground ensure no parkgoer gets too close.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 4, 6, and 8] Martha is late to a court appointment. She hops into her
motorbike and heads downtown. Halfway through, she realizes that she might get there earlier by
taking a shortcut through the park. She enters the park in her motorbike, cutting several minutes
off her commute time.
[Compliance; Block 2] Joanna walks into the park. She takes a long and relaxing stroll observing
the trees and birds.
Did (John/the team/Martha/Joanna) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Sleep
A group of people slept on the benches at the train station every night. To avoid use of the station
concourse as accommodation or overnight shelter, the station manager established a rule: “No
sleeping is allowed on the station benches”.
[Violation; Block 4] Robert is a homeless person. As the streets are cold and uncomfortable, he
goes to the train station, lies down in one of the benches, where he sleeps soundly throughout
the night.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 2, 6, and 8] Julia is a businesswoman. She spent all day out of town
negotiating important contracts. After a long day of work, Julia sits at one of the benches at the
train station to wait for the train home. While waiting, she falls asleep for about 5 minutes, before
waking up to the sound of an incoming train.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 1, 5, and 7] Richard is a homeless person. At the end of the day, he lies
down on a bench at the station, resting his head on a makeshift pillow and wrapped in an old
blanket. However, Richard never actually sleeps.
[Compliance; Block 3] Veronica is a frequent commuter on a local train. She sits at one of the
benches while excitingly talking over the phone with one of her best friends. Before the call is
over, her train arrives at the station and she gets onboard.
Did (Robert/Julia/Richard/Veronica) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Driving
While driving under the influence of alcohol, a young woman suffered a car accident that ended
her life. In order to avoid future accidents, Congress established a law: "If a police-administered
breathalyzer test detects any trace of alcohol, the driver’s vehicle will be seized and the driver
subject to imprisonment."
[Violation; Block 5] Mario drinks heavily at a nightclub. He uses his car to go back home. On his
way, police stops Mario and he takes a breathalyzer test that detects traces of alcohol.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 1, 3, and 7] Andrea is late to work. While getting ready as fast as she can,
Andrea uses mouthwash that contains alcohol. Despite her tardiness, Andrea drives carefully. On
her way, she is stopped by the police. The breathalyzer test detects a small amount of alcohol.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 2, 6, and 8] Ursula goes to a party where she makes use of a drug called
"ecstasy". This drug produces changes in perception and increased physical activity. Ursula does
not drink any alcohol at the party, only water. Once the party is over, Ursula gets in her car to
return home still under the influence of "ecstasy". She is stopped by the police, but the
breathalyzer test detects no alcohol.
[Compliance; Block 4] Lewis drives his car to work after having breakfast and drinking water. He
is stopped by the police on his way and takes a breathalyzer test that detects no traces of
alcohol.
Did (Mario/Andrea/Ursula/Lewis) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Library
After noticing damage to returned library books, the Figuria University Library created the
following rule: “Making notes and scribbling on library-owned books is strictly forbidden”.
[Violation; Block 6] Laura is a student at Figuria University who likes to doodle funny comic strips.
She borrows a biology book from the library. While Laura is studying, she can’t help but draw
cartoon figures making fun of biology students. She returns the book with all of her drawings
inside.
[Overinclusion; Block 2, 4, and 8] Marcos, a student at Figuria University, borrows some books
from the library. To help him study, he takes notes on the page margins. This helps Marcos make
connections between important points in his assigned readings. After finishing his study, he
meticulously erases all his notes, and returns the books in the same condition he borrowed them
in.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 1, 3, and 7] Heather, a student at Figuria University, borrows some books
from the library. To help her study, she folds several of the books' pages inward so as to easily
return to them later. This creates permanent creases on the books' pages. After finishing his
study, she returns the book to the library.
[Compliance; Block 5] Peter is a graduate student at Figuria University. He is very interested in
philosophy. Peter borrows several books from the library. While reading them, he takes careful
notes in a separate notebook. After finishing his study, he returns the books unmarked.
Did (Laura/Marcos/Heather/Peter) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Classroom
Students who snack during class often drop their food in the classroom. To keep the classrooms
clean, the school has decided to ban food in the classroom. 
[Violation; Block 7] George suffers from a dietary disorder and constantly feels the need to snack.
During history class, he opens up a chocolate bar. After taking a bite of the chocolate bar, it slips
out of George's hands and lands on the classroom floor.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 1, 3, and 5] April has diabetes. She is not feeling well in class and must
eat something sweet immediately to avoid fainting. April finds a chocolate bar in her purse and
takes a bite. She feels better and is able to concentrate on the lesson again.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 2, 4 and 8] Joan has no interest in math class, so she decides to groom
herself instead. She takes a nail clipper and file from her purse and begins to cut and file her
fingernails, allowing the clippings to fall onto the classroom floor.
[Compliance; Block 6] Joe is a good student who pays attention to all his classes. During history
class, he begins to feel hungry. Joe waits until the class is over to eat an apple during recess in
the playground.
Did (George/April/Joan/Joe) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Shoes
One day, a guest entered Maria’s house with his shoes on and dirtied the carpet in her living
room. In order to keep her house as clean as possible, Maria established that “Wearing shoes in
the house is not allowed”.
[Violation; Block 8] On a rainy day, Joanna walks from her house to Maria’s apartment. She walks
inside Maria’s home with her muddy boots on, dirtying Maria’s carpet.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 2, 4, and 6] John just bought a brand new pair of dress shoes. In the
hallway out front Maria’s apartment, he takes the shoes out of the box for the first time and puts
them on. John then walks around Maria’s apartment in his pristine dress shoes.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 1, 3, and 5] Carlos walks around barefoot unless footwear is strictly
necessary. On a rainy day, he walks from his house to Maria’s apartment. Carlos walks into
Maria’s home with his feet muddy, dirtying Maria’s carpet.
[Compliance; Block 7] Laura just bought Maria a present. In the hallway out front Maria’s
apartment, she wraps the present in a parcel. Before entering Maria’s apartment, Laura takes off
her shoes and walks barefoot around Maria’s apartment.
Did (Joanna/John/Carlos/Laura) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Environment
As a result of changing weather, the native flora in Aurontown is disappearing. The environmental
committee has initiated a reforestation project to replant native shrubs in the Aurontown National
Park, which will gradually restore the regional flora. So people will not damage the native shrubs,
park authorities have laid a fence around the reforestation site, and posted signs that say: “No
park visitors beyond this point”. 
[Violation; Block 1] Jolene goes for a walk on the paths of the Aurontown National Park and
reaches the site of the reforestation project. She skips over the fence, and rips a branch off one of
the native shrubs.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 3, 5, and 7] Anna goes for a walk on the paths of the Aurontown National
Park and reaches the site of the reforestation project. Without harming the native shrubs, Anna
skips over the fence to take a photo of the sunset.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 2, 4, and 6] Lucy goes for a walk on the paths of the Aurontown National
Park. After exiting the park, she finds a native shrub growing on the edge of a parking lot, and rips
a branch off.
[Compliance; Block 8] Samantha goes for a walk on the paths of the Aurontown national park.
After exiting the park, she passes a field of native grasses on her way back to her car. Samantha
looks over the field and takes a photo of the sunset.
Did (Jolene/Anna/Lucy/Samantha) break the rule?
• YES
• NO
Music
House parties are frequent in the college town of Greenville. The parties cause problems for
Greenville residents and families, whose sleep is disturbed. To avoid nuisance to Greenville
residents, the city adopted an ordinance: “No loud music past 10 PM”.
[Violation; Block 2] Brian invites his friends over to party while his parents are away. They hire a
DJ and play very loud music until 1 AM.
[Overinclusion; Blocks 4, 6, and 8] Mark lives in a cul-de-sac, and his only neighbors travel out of
town for the long weekend. Mark invites his bandmates to rehearse, realizing the volume will not
disturb anyone. The band practices until 1 AM.
[Underinclusion; Blocks 3, 5, and 7] Paul is a light jockey at some of the best clubs in town. To
prepare for an upcoming show, one night Paul sets up his laser lights in the front yard and
rehearses his show until 1 AM. The lights are so bright that neighbors complain about not being
able to sleep.
[Compliance; Block 1] Josh arrives home at 1AM after a long work trip. He is happy, so he almost
inaudibly hums a song as he unlocks his front door.
Did (Brian/Mark/Paul/Josh) break the rule?
• YES
• NO 